# var
To use variables in JavaScript, we first need to create it i.e. declare a 
variable. To declare variables, we use one of the var, let, or const 
keywords.

## var
Declares function-scoped or globally-scoped variables, optionally 
initializing each to a value

```javascript
var x = 1;
if (x === 1) {
    var x = 2;
    console.log(x) // outputs 2;
}

console.log(x) // outputs 2;
```

To declare more multiple variables in JavaScript:

```javascript
var a = 1, b = 2
let c = 3, d = 4
const e = 5, f = 6
```

The scope of a variable declared with `var` is one of the following that 
most closely contains the var statement:
- function body
- static initialization block (classes)

Or if none of the above applier
- The current module, for code running in module mode
- the global scope, for code running in script mode.

Importantly, other block constructs, including `block statements`, 
`try catch`, `switch`, headers of one of the `for` statements, do not 
create scopes for `var`, and variables declared with `var` inside such a 
block can continue to be referenced outside the block.

```javascript
for (var a of [1, 2, 3]);
console.log(a); // 3;
```

In a script, a variable declared using `var` is added as a non-configurable
property of the global object.
This means it cannot be deleted using `delete`, that's because JavaScript 
has automatic memory management, and it would make no sense to be able to 
use the `delete` operator on a global variable.

## Hoisting
var declarations, wherever they occur in a script, are processed before any
code within the script is executed. Declaring a variable anywhere in the 
code is equivalent to declaring it at the top. This also means that a 
variable can appear to be used before it's declared.

Only variable's declaration is hoisted, not its initialization. The 
initialization happens only when the assignment statement is reached. Until 
the variable remains `undefined` (but declared);

```javascript
function doSomething() {
    console.log(bar); // undefined
    var bar = 111;
    console.log(bar); // 111
}
```

> Note: `var` declarations are only hoisted to the top of the current 
script. If you have two <script> elements within one HTML, the first script
cannot access variables declared by the second before the second script has
been processed and executed.

## Redeclaration
Duplicate variable declarations using `var` will not trigger an error, even
in strict mode, and the variable will not lose its value, unless the 
declaration has an initializer.

```javascript
var a = 1;
var a = 2;
console.log(a); // 2
var a;
console.log(a); // 2; not undefined
```

`var` declarations can also be in the same scope as a `function` 
declaration. In this case, the `var` declaration's initializer always 
overrides the function's value. This is because function declarations are 
hoisted before any initializer get evaluated, so the initializer comes 
later and overrides the value.

```javascript
var a = 1;
function a() {}
console.log(a); // 1
```

`var` declarations cannot be in the same scope as a `let`, `const`, 
`class`, or `import` declaration.

A `var` declaration within a function body can have the same name as a parameter.

```javascript
function foo(a) {
    var a = 1;
    console.log(a);
}

foo(2); // Logs 1
```
