# let
The `let` declaration declares re-assignable, block-scoped local variables,
optionally initializing each to a value.

```javascript
let x = 1;
if (x === 1) {
    let x = 2;
    console.log(2); // 2
}
console.log(x) // 1
```

## Description
The scope of a variable declared with `let` is one of the following 
curly-brace-enclosed syntaxes that most closely contains the `let` 
declaration.

- Block statement
- `switch` statement
- `try/catch` statement
- Body of one of the `for` statements, if the `let` is in the header of the
  statement
- Function body
- Static initialization block

Or if none of the above applies:
- The current module, for code running in module mode
- The global scope, for code running in script mode.

- `let` declarations can only be accessed after the place of declaration is
reached. For this reason, `let` declarations are commonly regarded as 
`non-hoisted`.
- Do not create properties on `globalThis` when declared at the top level 
  of a script.
- Cannot be redeclared by any other declaration in the same scope.
- `let` begins declarations, not statements. That means you cannot use a 
   lone `let` declaration as the body of a block since there's no way to 
   access the variable.

## Temporal dead zone (TDZ)
A variable declared with `let`, `const`, or `class` is said to be in a TDZ 
from the start of the block until code execution reaches the place where 
the variable is declared and initialized.

While inside the TDZ, the variable has not been initialized with a value, 
and any attempt to access it will resul in a `ReferenceError`. The variable
is initialized with a value when execution reaches the place in the code 
where it was declared. If no initial value was specified with the variable 
declaration, it will be initialized with a value of `undefined`.

The term "temporal" is used because the zone depends on the order of 
execution (time) rather than the order in which the code is written 
(position).

```javascript
{
    // TDZ starts at beginning of scope
    const func = () => console.log(letVar); // OK

    // Within the TDZ letVar access throws `ReferenceError`

    let letVar = 3; // End of TDZ (for letVar)
    func(); // Called outside TDZ;
}
```

Using the `typeof` operator for a variable in its TDZ will throw a 
`ReferenceError`. This differs from using `typeof` for undeclared 
variables, and variables that hold a value of `undefined`;

```javascript
{
    // TDZ starts;
    typeof i; // ReferenceError;
    let i = 10; // TDZ ends for i;
}

console.log(typeof undeclaredVariable); // "undefined"
```

> Note: let and const declarations are only processed when the current 
script gets processed. If you have two <script> elements running in script 
mode within one HTML, the first script is not subject to the TDZ 
restrictions for top-level let or const variables declared in the second 
script, although if you declare a let or const variable in the first 
script, declaring it again in the second script will cause a redeclaration 
error.

## Redeclarations
`let` declarations cannot be in the same scope as any other declaration, 
including `let`, `const`, `class`, `function`, `var`, and `import` 
declaration.

A `let` declaration within an function's body cannot have the same name as 
a parameter. A `let` declaration within a catch block cannot have the same 
name as the `catch`-bound identifier.

You may encounter errors in `switch` statements because there is only one 
block. To avoid the error, wrap each `case` in a new block statement.

```javascript
let x = 1;

switch (x) {
    case 0:
        let foo;
        break;
    case 1:
        let foo; // SyntaxError
        break;
    case 2: {
        let foo; //OK in block statement
        break;
    }
}
```
